JUDY WOODRUFF: And now
to a "NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught
our eye that might be
of interest to you.
There's a growing movement to
fix items, instead of throwing
them out and buying new ones.
At MIT, a graduate started
Fixit Clinics eight years ago,
and now they're held all across
the country to teach people
how to do repairs themselves.
From PBS station WGBH in
Boston, Tina Martin reports.
TINA MARTIN: A toaster, a
tripod and a kettle, all
broken and in need of some TLC.
And they're in the right place.
PETER MUI, MIT Grad: This
is Fixit Clinic number 207.
We have had a bunch of
Fixit Clinics all across
the United States.
TINA MARTIN: MIT grad Peter
Mui started the clinics in 2009
to help people learn to help
themselves and the
environment in the process.
PETER MUI: And 52 tons of
e-waste diverted from landfill.
So, not even just diverted, not
upcycled or not recycled, but
actually returned to service
for their originally
intended use.
There is a sense that they
don't have a choice when
it goes -- when it breaks.
There is no repair people
left anymore to do this stuff.
TINA MARTIN: The clinics are
free and held three to four
times a month at libraries and
community centers
across the country.
Peter Mui and his team of
volunteer coaches train people
like Abby Fox (ph), whose kettle
is out of commission.
WOMAN: Under normal conditions,
you go like this, it goes click.
But it also turns blue and
then it should boil the water.
TINA MARTIN: She and I put on
goggles to learn about how to
get it back up and running.
Part of getting the kettle
back together is pulling it
apart and testing electricity.
PETER MUI: But you understand
that anything we do here
could make it worse.
TINA MARTIN: That warning aside,
the process is time-consuming,
and there's a chance nothing
can be done.
But the Fixit team prides
itself in resurrecting
even the toughest
electronics, like Jeannie
Fink's (ph) classic radio,
which belonged to her father.
WOMAN: His initials are
actually still on the back
of the part that we took off.
And he has since passed away,
but it had been sitting on a
shelf in my home for the longest
time.
TINA MARTIN: The bell sounds,
and the music is playing again.
It took about an hour
for Jeannie and her Fixit
coach to make it happen.
MAN: So you think you
can fix something in your
house by yourself now?
(LAUGHTER)
WOMAN: I think I'm more
confident to at least
try to troubleshoot.
TINA MARTIN: Abby Fox's
kettle was a different story.
The repair took all day, but,
in the end, it was another
Fixit Clinic success story.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Tina Martin in Boston.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I could
spend a couple of weeks there.
I have got a lot of things
at home that need fixing.